# SPuzzle

## Purpose
The primary objective of this project was to test out a modified version of the sliding tile puzzle also known as the 8-Puzzle into an S-puzzle, where every single block in an NxN matrix can be moved to an adjacent block. The goal being to sort an NxN matrix to an increasing order with 4 different algorithms : Depth-FIrst Search, Iterative Deepening, and two heuristic algorithms of our choice.

## Heuristics
The first heuristic was the hamming distance, which would evaluate the distance between a block and its intended position in terms of rows and columns, with the sum of both distances being the hamming distance. The algorithm will then try to iterate through several moves as long as it decreases the hamming distance from its prior value (this is done in a recursive fashion).
The second heuristic calculates the number of misplaced tiles from a block's position (ex: say you're given 54321 and need to sort 1, then there are 4 misplaced values because 1 is smaller than all of them), this algorithm will go a certain direction as long as the new distance is smaller than the original one.

## How to execute
Make sure you place every single file in the same folder. Ensure that the python that you're using is 3.8 and above, install any missing libraries indicated in the import section above the main file. This will execute the program and calculate the execution values for 20 different randomly generate values ranging from 1 to 9. 

## Scaling up
1.If you wish to scale up the algorithm , comment out the "file = open('random.txt', 'r')", then uncomment "file = open('15rand.txt', 'r')" and "goal = goal16". this will allow you to scale up to S = 4. 
2.Comment out the "file = open('random.txt', 'r')", then uncomment "file = open('24rand.txt', 'r')" and "goal = goal24". this will allow you to scale up to S = 5.

You cannot uncomment both of these at the same time, if you wish to view S = 5, only comment out the values indicated in 2) and comment all those in 1). If you wish to view S = 4, only comment out the values indicated in 1) and comment all those in 2) 

## Output files

Two output files will be generated by all four algorithms , a solution path and a search path. All solution paths end with sol while all search paths end with path. 
